---
layout: post
title:  "19.07: August Recap"
date:   2019-08-06 15:30:00 +0100
description: |
    "One step back, one and a half steps foreward, but faster."
image: /assets/img/posts/19.08.01/EikoPipes.png
---

One step back, one and a half steps foreward, but faster.

# August Recap

If you've been following the project since longer than this devblog has been around,(as of August, we are a year old, though, I hesitate to count our earliest efforts) you might know that we have once before had to scrap things before moving foreward. On the coding side of things, we have something of a historically bad habit of starting off on the wrong foot in some fundamentally incorrect fashion. We continue to learn from our mistakes, however, and each time we do so, we barrel foreward faster than before. That said, we did some scrapping early this month, so everything coding-wise here is new.

## Teaser
It doesn't feel right to put this one anywhere besides the top.
<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube-nocookie.com/embed/kb7lTMorbWo" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>
New teaser video courtesty of Grimmie. Please share it with your programmer friends and tell them to come help us build the project. Technically an older piece from when this project was younger.

## Re-networking
Specifically the cause for our this month's scrapping, the networking solution that we were using before took an absurdly long amount of time to compile, which was awful for every obvious reason. We rebuilt using Mirror for our networking, and have since pretty much surpased where we were before.

<video autoplay="autoplay" muted loop="loop" poster="{{ site.baseurl }}/assets/img/posts/19.08.01/AugustNetworkingThumbnail.png">
  <source src="{{ site.baseurl }}/assets/img/posts/19.08.01/AugustNetworking.webm" type="video/webm">
  <source src="{{ site.baseurl }}/assets/img/posts/19.08.01/AugustNetworking.mp4" type="video/mp4">
</video>

Also, the "not-walking" animation in space is presently-unanimated floating.

## Lighting

Lighting is kinda in a weird place for RE:SS3D due to it being intentionally unrealistic sometimes. There's a bit of a balance between having light and dark work in ways that make sense without overwhelming the otherwise "flat pastel" visual design. Still WIP.

{% responsive_image path: assets/img/posts/19.08.01/AugustLighting.png template: _includes/srcset.html %}


## FoV
Once again from Milly, some brand new WIP FoV.

<video autoplay="autoplay" muted loop="loop" poster="{{ site.baseurl }}/assets/img/posts/19.08.01/AugustFoVTest.png">
  <source src="{{ site.baseurl }}/assets/img/posts/19.08.01/AugustFoVTest.webm" type="video/webm">
  <source src="{{ site.baseurl }}/assets/img/posts/19.08.01/AugustFoVTest.mp4" type="video/mp4">
</video>

<video autoplay="autoplay" muted loop="loop" poster="{{ site.baseurl }}/assets/img/posts/19.08.01/AugustFoVStation.png">
  <source src="{{ site.baseurl }}/assets/img/posts/19.08.01/AugustFoVStation.webm" type="video/webm">
  <source src="{{ site.baseurl }}/assets/img/posts/19.08.01/AugustFoVStation.mp4" type="video/mp4">
</video>

## Player Inventory
<video autoplay="autoplay" muted loop="loop" poster="{{ site.baseurl }}/assets/img/posts/19.08.01/AugustNetworkingThumbnail.png">
  <source src="{{ site.baseurl }}/assets/img/posts/19.08.01/AugustItems.webm" type="video/webm">
  <source src="{{ site.baseurl }}/assets/img/posts/19.08.01/AugustItems.mp4" type="video/mp4">
</video>

## Piping design
New piping designs from Eiko! Beneath tile, there is room for disposals and two layers of pipes, and above tile, room for three layers of pipes for atmos shenanigans. Junctions are used to switch pipes detween layers. 
{% responsive_image path: assets/img/posts/19.08.01/EikoPipes.png template: _includes/srcset.html %}

## New Walls
While continuing our frustrating tradition of overhualing walls, Eiko has also designed walls-in-progress, reinforced walls, reinforced windows, counters, and countertop windows/shutters. 
{% responsive_image path: assets/img/posts/19.08.01/EikoWallworks.png template: _includes/srcset.html %}
Detail on the shutters:
<div class='horizontal-2' markdown='1'>
{% responsive_image path: assets/img/posts/19.08.01/EikoSecureWindow.png  %}
{% responsive_image path: assets/img/posts/19.08.01/EikoShutters.png  %}
</div>
Reinforced windows detail:
{% responsive_image path: assets/img/posts/19.08.01/EikoReinforcedWindowDisplay.png template: _includes/srcset.html %}

## Site Improvements

We now have a lovely [Contribute]({{ site.baseurl }}/contribute/) page, specifically designed to help model centralize resources for model contributers! The resources there are quite neat to look at, even if you don't have any specific modelling knowledge or background. We also updated the [About]({{ site.baseurl }}/about/) page (finally)! We also updated the [FAQ]({{ site.baseurl }}/faq/) page (finally), too! Images load faster as thumbnails and can be clicked on for full-resolution!
Site-specific writing courtesy of me, [Contribute]({{ site.baseurl }}/contribute/) documents mostly courtesy of Eiko, and the site existing and improving to begin with as a whole is a continued effort courtesy of Stubenhocker.

# EYE CANDY

From Grimmie, some wallpaper shots from what the teaser video was once intended to include.
{% responsive_image path: assets/img/posts/19.08.01/GrimmieTimeAssassinLight.png template: _includes/srcset.html %}
{% responsive_image path: assets/img/posts/19.08.01/GrimmieTimeAssassinDark.png template: _includes/srcset.html %}

Probably Not's inspired art pieces:
{% responsive_image path: assets/img/posts/19.08.01/ClownHallProbablyNot.jpg template: _includes/srcset.html %}
{% responsive_image path: assets/img/posts/19.08.01/ProbablyNotSpook.jpg template: _includes/srcset.html %}

In another step towards ensuring that the standard spessman can be properly disassembled, Eiko has now made it so that the ears can be removed.
{% responsive_image path: assets/img/posts/19.08.01/ear.gif template: _includes/srcset.html %}

Console as a joint piece between Eiko and Goao. At one point this thing was fully animated with nothing but shapekey sorcery, but then Eiko made an animation to strap onto it. I still don't know which one approach is more concerning anymore.
<div class='horizontal-2' markdown='1'>
{% responsive_image path: assets/img/posts/19.08.01/ConsoleEiko.png  %}
{% responsive_image path: assets/img/posts/19.08.01/ConsoleGoao.png  %}
</div>

More various items from Goao:
<div class='horizontal-2' markdown='1'>
{% responsive_image path: assets/img/posts/19.08.01/Goao1.png  %}
{% responsive_image path: assets/img/posts/19.08.01/Goao2.png  %}
</div>

<div class='horizontal-2' markdown='1'>
{% responsive_image path: assets/img/posts/19.08.01/Goao3.png  %}
{% responsive_image path: assets/img/posts/19.08.01/Goao4.png  %}
</div>

From Lightvelox, that one old mining sachel you might recall, a blowtorch, and the CMO hardsuit.
{% responsive_image path: assets/img/posts/19.08.01/LightVeloxMiningSatchelAndWeldingTool.png template: _includes/srcset.html %}
<div class='horizontal-2' markdown='1'>
{% responsive_image path: assets/img/posts/19.08.01/LightVeloxMiningSatchelAndWeldingTool.png  %}
{% responsive_image path: assets/img/posts/19.08.01/CMOHardsuit.png  %}
</div>


From Kiwav, a collection of hardhats for any safety-oriented spessman.
{% responsive_image path: assets/img/posts/19.08.01/KiwavHardHats.png template: _includes/srcset.html %}

From deBARBA, small collection of birds, including that prior-seen cockatiel.
{% responsive_image path: assets/img/posts/19.08.01/deBARBABirds.png template: _includes/srcset.html %}

{% responsive_image path: assets/img/posts/19.08.01/KonstantinBeepsky.png template: _includes/srcset.html %}
{% responsive_image path: assets/img/posts/19.08.01/KonstantinBeepsky.png template: _includes/srcset.html %}

From Bathball, nougat in wrapper. Before this model, I had never fully understood what a nougat was.
{% responsive_image path: assets/img/posts/19.08.01/BathballNougat.png template: _includes/srcset.html %}


A new poster from Konstantin, this time depicting the automated menace of the station, Beepsky.
{% responsive_image path: assets/img/posts/19.08.01/KonstantinBeepsky.png template: _includes/srcset.html %}






















### NOTES
This month we've made things more accessible for programmers to contribute to the project. There have been significant improvements due to this, but there's always room for more. If you are a programmer, please help.  

This is our monthly devblog, standing as evidence of our continued existence.
Come visit us on [Discord](https://discord.gg/3ny9tdH){:target="_blank"} despite the fact that Discord is terrible.
