---
layout: post
title:  "19.11: November Recap"
date:   2019-12-10 15:30:00 +0100
description: |
    "Don't forget to wear protection!"
image: /assets/img/posts/19.11.01/November19Wallpaper.png
---

*Don't forget to wear protection!*

# November Recap

Another month goes by and new faces continue to trickle in, which were happy to see, even more-so when one of those faces knows how to code. Although not many gears were rotated this month, one important gear was installed that will be the driving force for many new gears to be spun.

## Inventory

Our very important and newly installed gear being basic inventory, thanks to Nonanon! The system allows for picking up, placing, storing, and equiping of items. Objects can be placed on tables, on the floor, or even other objects. Switching hands can be done manually or with the 'X' key for those of you familiar with hotkey mode from TG SS13.

*Disclaimer: SS3D is a top down game but the camera here is zoomed in to show more detail. Also the airlocks here are NOT our most up-to-date version so ignore the obvious mistakes in them (see the models section below for the current version). And finally gravity is not implemented for the player yet, so just pretend you don't notice the player floating in this first clip.*

<video autoplay="autoplay" muted loop="loop" poster="{{ site.baseurl }}/assets/img/posts/19.11.01/NonanonInventory1.gif">
  <source src="{{ site.baseurl }}/assets/img/posts/19.11.01/NonanonInventory1.gif" type="video/webm">
  <source src="{{ site.baseurl }}/assets/img/posts/19.11.01/NonanonInventory1.gif" type="video/mp4">
</video>

Moving items around in inventories can be done via clicking your desired locaiton or by clicking and then dragging your item to the location you want to move it. Players currently have access to all body slots, but clothing slots (belts, pockets, suits, ect.) are yet to be implemented. Items and item slots have rudimentary restrictions so that you can't equip meson goggles to your feet, for example; and slots will highlight if they are compatible with the item being equipped.

<video autoplay="autoplay" muted loop="loop" poster="{{ site.baseurl }}/assets/img/posts/19.11.01/NonanonInventory2.gif">
  <source src="{{ site.baseurl }}/assets/img/posts/19.11.01/NonanonInventory2.gif" type="video/webm">
  <source src="{{ site.baseurl }}/assets/img/posts/19.11.01/NonanonInventory2.gif" type="video/mp4">
</video>

Players can open a container's inventory from a certain distance away, and interact with it within that distance. The container's inventory window is also moveable.

<video autoplay="autoplay" muted loop="loop" poster="{{ site.baseurl }}/assets/img/posts/19.11.01/NonanonInventory3.gif">
  <source src="{{ site.baseurl }}/assets/img/posts/19.11.01/NonanonInventory3.gif" type="video/webm">
  <source src="{{ site.baseurl }}/assets/img/posts/19.11.01/NonanonInventory3.gif" type="video/mp4">
</video>

And above all, this is fully networked and tested!

<video autoplay="autoplay" muted loop="loop" poster="{{ site.baseurl }}/assets/img/posts/19.11.01/NonanonInventory4.gif">
  <source src="{{ site.baseurl }}/assets/img/posts/19.11.01/NonanonInventory4.gif" type="video/webm">
  <source src="{{ site.baseurl }}/assets/img/posts/19.11.01/NonanonInventory4.gif" type="video/mp4">
</video>

There is still quite a bit more to do, but these are all the basic necessities for the inventory of which a lot of other features can now be started... so thanks again Nonanon!

## Major Shader

Erythro seems to simply not be-able to get enough of making really cool shaders; this month he has provided an example of a badass hologram shader!

<video autoplay="autoplay" muted loop="loop" poster="{{ site.baseurl }}/assets/img/posts/19.11.01/ErythroHologram.gif">
  <source src="{{ site.baseurl }}/assets/img/posts/19.11.01/ErythroHologram.gif" type="video/webm">
  <source src="{{ site.baseurl }}/assets/img/posts/19.11.01/ErythroHologram.gif" type="video/mp4">
</video>

## Textures

If you remember from our last blog post, we showcased a poster object using a custom poster texture which could easily be swapped out to create multiple poster variants. This month Eiko brought it back with bedsheets using custom textures as well as a [template]({{ site.baseurl }}/assets/img/posts/19.11.01/EikoBlanketTemplate.png){:target="_blank"} to ease the process for others to make their own blanket textures.

{% responsive_image path: assets/img/posts/19.11.01/EikoBlankets.png template: _includes/srcset.html %}

Milly decided to also play around with custom textures by doing a UV unwrap on our slime mob and adding a gradient texture to create a pretty neat result! It will be interesting to see where it goes.

{% responsive_image path: assets/img/posts/19.11.01/MillySlimeGradient.png template: _includes/srcset.html %}

## Player Model

Ignore us saying that last month Eiko had wrapped up any final changes with the player model and rig, cause this month we found another issue. This issue being with the player's thumb and how it wraps around an object when an object is being held. Well Eiko, the trooper that he is, tackled this issue as well by rebuilding the thumb!

{% responsive_image path: assets/img/posts/19.11.01/EikoThumb.png template: _includes/srcset.html %}

And with recent progression in the area of held items Probably Not has made some new and badass combat-related poses!

{% responsive_image path: assets/img/posts/19.11.01/ProbablyNotCombatPoses.png template: _includes/srcset.html %}

## Model Mayhem

More skilled modellers seem to show up each month and this month was no exception...

From Bwoink this month we have the biogenerator, and the ripley mech!

<div class='horizontal-2' markdown='1'>
{% responsive_image path: assets/img/posts/19.11.01/BwoinkBriogenerator.png %}
{% responsive_image path: assets/img/posts/19.11.01/BwoinkMiniMech.png %}
</div>

From Eiko, a crab and walking mushroom!

<div class='horizontal-2' markdown='1'>
{% responsive_image path: assets/img/posts/19.11.01/EikoCrab.png %}
{% responsive_image path: assets/img/posts/19.11.01/EikoWalkingMushroom.png %}
</div>

This month Cosmic decided to update some older models with newer variations including, airlocks, tables, and walls panels, but also provided a new potted plant and killer tomato!

<div class='horizontal-2' markdown='1'>
{% responsive_image path: assets/img/posts/19.11.01/CosmicAirlocks1.png %}
{% responsive_image path: assets/img/posts/19.11.01/CosmicAirlocks2.png %}
</div>

<div class='horizontal-2' markdown='1'>
{% responsive_image path: assets/img/posts/19.11.01/CosmicTables.png %}
{% responsive_image path: assets/img/posts/19.11.01/CosmicWallPanels.png %}
</div>

<div class='horizontal-2' markdown='1'>
{% responsive_image path: assets/img/posts/19.11.01/CosmicOrangePlant.png %}
{% responsive_image path: assets/img/posts/19.11.01/CosmicKillerTomato.png %}
</div>

One of our new modelers, Divibee, has provided quite a collection this month including meson goggles, a multitool, a buttbot, the changlings's armblade, the chaplain's null set, glowshrooms and more!

<div class='horizontal-2' markdown='1'>
{% responsive_image path: assets/img/posts/19.11.01/DiviMesonGoggles.png %}
{% responsive_image path: assets/img/posts/19.11.01/DiviMultitool.png %}
</div>

<div class='horizontal-2' markdown='1'>
{% responsive_image path: assets/img/posts/19.11.01/DiviButtbot.png %}
{% responsive_image path: assets/img/posts/19.11.01/DiviArmblade.png %}
</div>

{% responsive_image path: assets/img/posts/19.11.01/DiviNullSet.png template: _includes/srcset.html %}

{% responsive_image path: assets/img/posts/19.11.01/DiviGlowshrooms.png template: _includes/srcset.html %}

From Erythro, the portable air pump and chemical heater!

{% responsive_image path: assets/img/posts/19.11.01/ErythroMachines.png template: _includes/srcset.html %}

From FEB, a nice voda machine!

{% responsive_image path: assets/img/posts/19.11.01/FEBVoda.png template: _includes/srcset.html %}

From Fuu, a body bag, box of raisins, cup of ramen, and some delicious ice creams!

{% responsive_image path: assets/img/posts/19.11.01/FuuBodybag.png template: _includes/srcset.html %}

{% responsive_image path: assets/img/posts/19.11.01/FuuFood.png template: _includes/srcset.html %}

From Goao, some borgs, bots, and space carps, as well as a frog, goose, goldenwheel chair, and some new dispensers!

{% responsive_image path: assets/img/posts/19.11.01/GoaoBorgs.png template: _includes/srcset.html %}

{% responsive_image path: assets/img/posts/19.11.01/GoaoBots.png template: _includes/srcset.html %}

<div class='horizontal-2' markdown='1'>
{% responsive_image path: assets/img/posts/19.11.01/GoaoSpacecarps.png %}
{% responsive_image path: assets/img/posts/19.11.01/GoaoAnimals.png %}
</div>

<div class='horizontal-2' markdown='1'>
{% responsive_image path: assets/img/posts/19.11.01/GoaoGoldenWheelchair.png %}
{% responsive_image path: assets/img/posts/19.11.01/GoaoDispensers.png %}
</div>

Another new face who has provided many contributions already is Liddius. So far they have provided a jukebox, mulebot, chefbot, flamethrower, and ion rifle, as well as some pie cannons and pneumatic cannons fitted for various gas tanks!

{% responsive_image path: assets/img/posts/19.11.01/LiddiusJukebox.png template: _includes/srcset.html %}

<div class='horizontal-2' markdown='1'>
{% responsive_image path: assets/img/posts/19.11.01/LiddiusMULEBot.png %}
{% responsive_image path: assets/img/posts/19.11.01/LiddiusChefbot.png %}
</div>

<div class='horizontal-2' markdown='1'>
{% responsive_image path: assets/img/posts/19.11.01/LiddiusFlamethrower.png %}
{% responsive_image path: assets/img/posts/19.11.01/LiddiusIonRifle.png %}
</div>

{% responsive_image path: assets/img/posts/19.11.01/LiddiusPieCannon.png template: _includes/srcset.html %}

{% responsive_image path: assets/img/posts/19.11.01/LiddiusPneumaticCannon.png template: _includes/srcset.html %}

And last this month but not least, a pulse pistol from LightVelox!

{% responsive_image path: assets/img/posts/19.11.01/LightVeloxPulsePistol.png template: _includes/srcset.html %}

### NOTES

This is our monthly devblog, serving as an alleged anchor for showing our milestones of progress. Late again but havn't stopped.

Credit for this month's cover art goes to Probably Not!

As always, come get toolboxed in our [Discord](https://discord.gg/3ny9tdH){:target="_blank"} arrivals, and don't forget to bring a friend (specifically one that knows how to program)!

See you next month!
