---
layout: post
title:  "19.04: April 2019 Devblog"
author: Sunberry
date:   2019-04-30 15:30:00 +0100
description: |
    "Despite being a slow month, continued evidence of our accomplishments continues to prove that we are not dead."
image: /assets/img/posts/19.04.1/SinguloTestThumbnail.PNG
post_credit: Written by - Sunberry
---


Despite being a slow month, continued evidence of our accomplishments continues to prove that we are not dead.

# April Recap

### SINGULARITY

Ol’ Singulo is here, complete with containment fields, courtesy of PlayerOne. Experience the horror of a containing an erratic and malevolent force of destruction to power basic utilities.

<video width="580px" autoplay="autoplay" muted loop="loop" poster="{{ site.baseurl }}/assets/img/posts/19.04.1/SinguloTest.jpg">
  <source src="{{ site.baseurl }}/assets/img/posts/19.04.1/SinguloTest.webm" type="video/webm">
  <source src="{{ site.baseurl }}/assets/img/posts/19.04.1/SinguloTest.mp4" type="video/mp4">
</video>
{% responsive_image path: assets/img/posts/19.04.1/SinguloTestBirdseye.png template: _includes/srcset.html alt: "Singlarity bird's eye" %}

### ATMOS

After the mantle had been left sitting on the floor in a half-finished state months ago, Dyhr has picked up Atmos this month and is bringing it into a state of completion. While it hasn’t reached that completion yet, we’re still inclined to share our progress. Pictured here is nitrogen and oxygen.

{% responsive_image path: assets/img/posts/19.04.1/AtmosTestApril19.gif template: _includes/srcset-gif.html alt: "Atmos Test" %}

### MODEL LIST

As one of the first steps to properly creating a good system for intaking model community submissions, we now have a big list of what models have and haven’t been explicitly accepted into the project. Most of the credit for this one goes to White Eagle, who made the majority of this twenty-something page document of items.

{% responsive_image path: assets/img/posts/19.04.1/ModelListWIP.gif template: _includes/srcset-gif.html alt: "A terrifyingly long gif of a scrolling model list" %}

# EYE CANDY

From White Eagle, we have cameras. These cameras were going to be for something special, but you will have to wait for the next devblog post for that detail.

{% responsive_image path: assets/img/posts/19.04.1/WhiteEagleCameras.png template: _includes/srcset.html alt: "Two pretty, fully rigged cameras." %}

From the combined efforts of Konstantin and Sunberry, we have Ian flying into the sun.
<div class='horizontal-2' markdown='1'>
{% responsive_image path: assets/img/art/Konstantin3001/KonstantinIanSunsetPoster.png %}
{% responsive_image path: assets/img/art/Sunberry/SunberryIanSunsetPoster.png %}
</div>

Also from Konstantin, our first horizontal poster. You can use it as a desktop background, if you feel so inclined.

{% responsive_image path: assets/img/art/Konstantin3001/KonstantinCultistPoster.png template: _includes/srcset.html %}

### MUTINY

We have also very recently changed our leadership in the project, complete with a total restructuring of internal management into a system of teams, with our most competent members at the lead of them.

This is our monthly devblog, here to assure you that we have yet to die.
Come visit us on Discord, if you're into that.
