---
layout: post
title:  "19.06: June Recap"
date:   2019-07-04 15:30:00 +0100
description: |
    "A new face appears. An old face vanishes. Gears start to turn again."
image: /assets/img/posts/19.06.01/EikoEmptyVoid.png
---


A new face appears. An old face vanishes. Gears start to turn again.

# June Recap

## NEWER, TALLER, MORE MODULAR WALLS

Foreground is example of old walls, background is example of new walls.
{% responsive_image path: assets/img/posts/19.06.01/EikoOldWallsNewWalls.png template: _includes/srcset.html %}
Now, these taller walls *may or may not* be the first step down a slippery slope that might land us in a place with vertical orientation, and they are overall possibly still very much subject to change, but they solve some problems with how certain especially larger entities will navigate the station. Their careful construction as a joint project between PlayerOne and our newly ordained Eiko has ensured their flexibility to function as proper building blocks of any station design.

The flexibility is enough to produce  some curiously revolting structures, were an individual motivated enough to make some:

<div class='horizontal-2' markdown='1'>
{% responsive_image path: assets/img/posts/19.06.01/EikoRevoltingStructures1.png  %}
{% responsive_image path: assets/img/posts/19.06.01/EikoRevoltingStructures2.png  %}
</div>
<div class='horizontal-2' markdown='1'>
{% responsive_image path: assets/img/posts/19.06.01/EikoRevoltingStructures3.png  %}
{% responsive_image path: assets/img/posts/19.06.01/EikoRevoltingStructures4.png  %}
</div>

## LIMBS

{% responsive_image path: assets/img/posts/19.06.01/Limbs.png template: _includes/srcset.html %}

Though the cartoony style of our spessman might be deceiving, RE:SS3D is still based off of SS13, and as such, spessmen will be expected to inevitably die in incredibly brutal ways. Chopped limbs and cauterized wounds have been designed and do well to fit that perfect balance between being cartoony and appropriately depicting the horribly injury they are intended to represent.

<div class='horizontal-2' markdown='1'>
{% responsive_image path: assets/img/posts/19.06.01/Severed.png  %}
{% responsive_image path: assets/img/posts/19.06.01/Cauterized.png  %}
</div>

Examples of severed and cauterized limbs, courtesy of Eiko, who also made the [definitely-violates-station-dresscode](https://ss3d.space/assets/img/posts/19.06.01/SS3DDressCodeProblemSolving.PNG){:target="_blank"} sundress pictured here.

## SKELETONS

{% responsive_image path: assets/img/posts/19.06.01/SpookyScary.png template: _includes/srcset.html %}
Alongside our preparations for the dismemberment of our spessmen, we now also have a skeleton (again, courtesy of Eiko.) For the skeleton enthusiasts out there, like myself, let me assure you that the male and female skeletons can be properly differentiated by an informed inspection of the hips. Structurally, they also fit perfectly inside the base human model, allowing for fun effects like the cartoony “electrocution X-ray.”

## CRITTERS

Three new critters join the station. Blame Eiko. You'll have to take my word for it when I say that they're all adorably animated, though, because I'm not competent enough to display that properly right now.

{% responsive_image path: assets/img/posts/19.06.01/EikoSpaceCarp.png template: _includes/srcset.html %}
<div class='horizontal-2' markdown='1'>
{% responsive_image path: assets/img/posts/19.06.01/EikoCockroach.png  %}
{% responsive_image path: assets/img/posts/19.06.01/EikoLizard.png  %}
</div>

# EYE CANDY

Various other models from Eiko this month, beginning with a new update on door design to include panels, and ending with some various foodstuffs.

{% responsive_image path: assets/img/posts/19.06.01/EikoDoorPanel.gif template: _includes/srcset.html %}
<div class='horizontal-2' markdown='1'>
{% responsive_image path: assets/img/posts/19.06.01/EikoDeskLamp.png  %}
{% responsive_image path: assets/img/posts/19.06.01/EikoHolopad.png  %}
</div>
<div class='horizontal-2' markdown='1'>
{% responsive_image path: assets/img/posts/19.06.01/EikoPianoAndStool.png  %}
{% responsive_image path: assets/img/posts/19.06.01/EikoPottedPlant.png  %}
</div>
<div class='horizontal-2' markdown='1'>
{% responsive_image path: assets/img/posts/19.06.01/EikoSpaceHeaterOff.png  %}
{% responsive_image path: assets/img/posts/19.06.01/EikoTowel.png  %}
</div>
{% responsive_image path: assets/img/posts/19.06.01/EikoFoods.png template: _includes/srcset.html %}

Some splendid machinery and furniture brought to us by deBARBA, some within some Sketchfab embeds. Click on the embeds, because they look way better than my lousy Blender screenshots, and the two machines have amazing animations.

<div class="sketchfab-embed-wrapper"><iframe width="600" height="400" src="https://sketchfab.com/models/a7f210103cf14821ac1a22624357cd18/embed?camera=0" frameborder="0" allow="autoplay; fullscreen; vr" mozallowfullscreen="true" webkitallowfullscreen="true" style="width:100%"></iframe>
<p style="font-size: 13px; font-weight: normal; margin: 5px; color: #4A4A4A;">
</p>
</div>

<div class='horizontal-2-direct-children-desktop' markdown='1'>
  {% responsive_image path: assets/img/posts/19.06.01/deBARBAGibber.png  %}
  <div class="sketchfab-embed-wrapper">
    <p>
      <iframe width="320" height="200" src="https://sketchfab.com/models/35c1a18000e648019bf66803e9c49b98/embed" frameborder="0" allow="autoplay; fullscreen; vr" mozallowfullscreen="true" webkitallowfullscreen="true" style="width:100%"></iframe>
    </p>
  </div>
</div>
<div class='horizontal-2-direct-children-desktop' markdown='1'>
  {% responsive_image path: assets/img/posts/19.06.01/deBARBAComfyChair.png  %}
  <div class="sketchfab-embed-wrapper">
    <p>
      <iframe width="320" height="200" src="https://sketchfab.com/models/374d59cc92b440d089a9152cf07c6f50/embed" frameborder="0" allow="autoplay; fullscreen; vr" mozallowfullscreen="true" webkitallowfullscreen="true" style="width:100%"></iframe>
    </p>
  </div>
</div>

<div class='horizontal-2' markdown='1'>
{% responsive_image path: assets/img/posts/19.06.01/deBARBAShuttleChair.png  %}
{% responsive_image path: assets/img/posts/19.06.01/deBARBAStationBouncedRadio.png  %}
</div>


Capacitors, brought to us by goao, in standard, advanced, and super capacities.

{% responsive_image path: assets/img/posts/19.06.01/goaoCapacitorSuper.png template: _includes/srcset.html %}

<div class='horizontal-2' markdown='1'>
{% responsive_image path: assets/img/posts/19.06.01/goaoCapacitor.png  %}
{% responsive_image path: assets/img/posts/19.06.01/goaoCapacitorAdvanced.png  %}
</div>

### NOTES

This one came out a few days late, because I am the weak link of the devblogs, and [some](https://cdn.discordapp.com/attachments/483819148825067521/590007716655661080/2019-06-16_22-39-31.mp4){:target="blank"} things may've not gotten the proper mention they deserve, including new hairstyles and new expressions for the playermodel.

This is our monthly devblog, standing as proof that we're still here breathing and working, even when only one of us is pulling all the weight.
Come visit us on [Discord](https://discord.gg/3ny9tdH){:target="_blank"}, if you're into that.
Fun things happen on the Discord, sometimes.
