---
layout: post
title:  "19.03: The First March Recap"
author: Sunberry
date:   2019-03-29 15:30:00 +0100
description: |
    "Welcome to the station crew..."
image: /assets/img/posts/19.03.1/19.03.1PlayerOneMapGenLightsAligned.png
---


“Welcome to the Station crew…”

# FOREWARD

If you just got here, then proper introductions are probably in order. That said, proper introductions can be found on our “About” page.

For now, we’ll settle for brief introductions, gloss over the highlights, and then move on to the main event.

In the early months of the prior year, an absurdly talented individual known only as *beep announced their plans for a project called SS3D. Their work was inspiring, ingenious, and magnificent, and whenever they spoke their plans, it was clear that they had spent many a commute and night mulling over their ideas until they were refined into brilliance. Almost effortlessly, they hammered into shape their dream of 3D spessmen, making bounds of progress week by week. The project was their passion, and they would see it to its end.

One day, a few months into glorious, fruitful development of SS3D, *beep went quiet, never to be heard from again. With him we lost everything but that faraway dream, mere glimpses of a master plan, and a handful of assets.

{% responsive_image path: assets/img/posts/19.03.1/BeepsMaterialOffering.png template: _includes/srcset-gif.html alt: "*beep's parting gift" %}

Months later, in the fall of the same year, this project was started, in its infantile form. Over the course of this winter, we’ve been working to get our legs beneath us and present ourselves to the world. Now it is spring, and here we are.

# March Recap

### NETWORKING

Networking is set up now, thanks to Dyhr. Players are networked, physics is networked. A person is able to host a game and another person is able to join it. Both cause and means of celebration are presented here.

### WEBSITE

Also on the list of things accomplished within this month: this very website. Stubenhocker and I (read: entirely Stubenhocker) worked on putting it together, and it has turned out very well. Now released for your very own viewing pleasure.

### WEBLOGGER

Also from Stubenhocker, we now have a neat remote logger for the server.

{% responsive_image path: assets/img/posts/19.03.1/19.03.1StubenhockerWebconsole.gif template: _includes/srcset-gif.html alt: "Web console" %}

### INVENTORY INTERFACE

The newest member of our team, HotDog, has been working on the Inventory UI this month.

{% responsive_image path: assets/img/posts/19.03.1/19.03.1HotDogUI.png template: _includes/srcset.html alt: "New UI" %}

### CONSTRUCTION AUTOMATION

Milly has created a tool for automatically selecting the proper model/orientation for environmental pieces. This is used to ensure that things like adjacent walls or tables use the proper models so that they are connected, and that things like light fixtures are attached to walls.

{% responsive_image path: assets/img/posts/19.03.1/19.03.1MillyConstruction.gif template: _includes/srcset-gif.html alt: "Automated construction selection" %}

### FOV

Also from Milly this month: FoV. Please pardon the T-pose.

{% responsive_image path: assets/img/posts/19.03.1/19.03.1MillyFoVTpose.gif template: _includes/srcset-gif.html alt: "If a spaceman T-poses into a T-junction, but can't see around the corners, what do they do?" %}

### BOXSTATION

PlayerOne has been working on setting up the automatic import of maps from SS13, with some help from the prior mentioned construction tool. Though we’ve yet to produce the content needed to really fill out these areas with functional systems and whatnot, these familiar spaces remain comforting to see in a 3D environment. Here’s some of the faithful BoxStation in its transition to 3D:

{% responsive_image path: assets/img/posts/19.03.1/19.03.1PlayerOneMapGenLightsAligned.png template: _includes/srcset.html alt: "Box Station in infantile, 3D glory" %}
<div class='horizontal' markdown='1'>
{% responsive_image path: assets/img/posts/19.03.1/19.03.1PlayerOneMapGenLightsAndDoors.png  alt: "Box Station bridge" %}
{% responsive_image path: assets/img/posts/19.03.1/19.03.1PlayerOneBridgeAvatar.png alt: "PlayerOne Bridge Avatar" %}
</div>
<div class='horizontal' markdown='1'>
{% responsive_image path: assets/img/posts/19.03.1/19.03.1PlayerOneMapGenTables1.png alt: "Tables one" %}
{% responsive_image path: assets/img/posts/19.03.1/19.03.1PlayerOneMapGenTables2.png alt: "Tables two" %}
</div>

PlayerOne also did a ton of work [over livestream](https://www.twitch.tv/xammurapi){:target="_blank"} fixing up our models, readying them up for animation and customization and UV unwrapping them.

# EYE CANDY

Taking the lead for highest resolution texture on the station, [Konstantin3001](https://www.deviantart.com/konstantin3001){:target="_blank"} has been brought back, and has brought with them brand new posters.
<div class='horizontal' markdown='1'>
{% responsive_image path: assets/img/posts/19.03.1EyeCandy/PosterKonstantin3001UnkownSubstances.png alt: "Do not consume unkown substances" %}
{% responsive_image path: assets/img/posts/19.03.1EyeCandy/PosterKonstantin3001GAUSS.png alt: "GAUSS rifle poster" %}
</div>
<div class='horizontal' markdown='1'>
{% responsive_image path: assets/img/posts/19.03.1EyeCandy/PosterKonstantin3001JoinSyndie.png alt: "Join the Syndicate" %}
{% responsive_image path: assets/img/posts/19.03.1EyeCandy/PosterKonstantin3001NASAAirlock.png alt: "Outdated NASA airlock" %}
</div>
Enclave
“Main station jobs almost finished.”

{% responsive_image path: assets/img/posts/19.03.1/19.03.1Enclave1and2.png template: _includes/srcset.html alt: "one and one makes" %}
{% responsive_image path: assets/img/posts/19.03.1/19.03.1EnclaveCasualCosmonaut.gif template: _includes/srcset-gif.html alt: "Casual Cosmonaut" %}
<div class='horizontal' markdown='1'>
{% responsive_image path: assets/img/posts/19.03.1/19.03.1EnclaveBartender.png alt: "Bartender model" %}
{% responsive_image path: assets/img/posts/19.03.1/19.03.1EnclavePriestRobes.png alt: "Chaplain robes model" %}
{% responsive_image path: assets/img/posts/19.03.1/19.03.1EnclaveSpaceCowboy.png alt: "Space Cowboy model" %}
</div>
<div class='horizontal' markdown='1'>
{% responsive_image path: assets/img/posts/19.03.1/19.03.1EnclaveChef.gif alt: "Chef armor" %}
{% responsive_image path: assets/img/posts/19.03.1/19.03.1EnclavePriestRobes.png alt: "Chaplain armor model" %}
{% responsive_image path: assets/img/posts/19.03.1/19.03.1EnclaveSpaceBear.gif template: _includes/srcset-gif.html alt: "SpaceBear" %}
</div>

Fuu
<div class='horizontal' markdown='1'>
{% responsive_image path: assets/img/posts/19.03.1EyeCandy/FuuShieldGenerator.png alt: "Shield generator" %}
{% responsive_image path: assets/img/posts/19.03.1EyeCandy/FuuParticleAccellorationationator.png alt: "Particle accelerator" %}
{% responsive_image path: assets/img/posts/19.03.1EyeCandy/FuuFieldProjector1.png alt: "Shield rojector" %}
</div>
<div class='horizontal' markdown='1'>
{% responsive_image path: assets/img/posts/19.03.1EyeCandy/FuuEmitter1.png alt: "Emitter1" %}
{% responsive_image path: assets/img/posts/19.03.1EyeCandy/FuuEmitter2.png alt: "Emitter2" %}
</div>
<div class='horizontal' markdown='1'>
{% responsive_image path: assets/img/posts/19.03.1EyeCandy/FuuSmokes.png alt: "Smokes" %}
{% responsive_image path: assets/img/posts/19.03.1EyeCandy/FuuMopSquirtDisk.png alt: "MopSquirtDisk" %}
{% responsive_image path: assets/img/posts/19.03.1EyeCandy/FuuEyeDropper.png alt: "Eyedrops" %}
</div>
{% responsive_image path: assets/img/posts/19.03.1EyeCandy/FuuJanitorCart.png template: _includes/srcset.html alt: "Stacking janitor cart" %}

White Eagle

{% responsive_image path: assets/img/posts/19.03.1EyeCandy/WhiteEagleJanitorSet1.png template: _includes/srcset.html alt: "Paint remover, light replacer, bear trap, janitor cart, mop" %}
<div class='horizontal' markdown='1'>
{% responsive_image path: assets/img/posts/19.03.1EyeCandy/WhiteEagleHoloProjector.png alt: "Janitor's Holo-projector" %}
{% responsive_image path: assets/img/posts/19.03.1EyeCandy/WhiteEagleTrapBoxSmokeBomb.png alt: "A box of mousetraps and a foamgrenade" %}
</div>

Fuu and White Eagle both posted their janitor carts within minutes of one another, so now we have two janitor carts.

As this is a monthly Devblog, you can expect another next month. Until then, you can follow our development and interact with us on Discord.

“... enjoy your stay.”
