---
layout: post
title: "20.12: December 2020 Devblog"
date: 2021-01-13 06:30:00 +0100
description: |
    "Cheers to the new years!"
image: /assets/img/art/Eiko/Eiko_Friends.png
image_credit: Image credit - Eiko
post_credit: Written by – CosmicCoincidence
monthly_release: 0.3.93
---

Cheers to the new years, let hope this one is better than the last!

# December Recap

Apologies for the delay in gettting this month's blog post made, but we hope everyone had a great holiday season despite what we are all going through in this crazy world.

## Fixes

**Seteron** Retimed the move cycle to fix the symmetry of the run/walk animations. He also fixxed the inverted SSRT when using OpenGL drivers.

**John** made countless small fixes to many of our models again this month, regarding topology, shading, style, and more.

## Details

**CosmicCoincidence** moved several more art assets into the game, most notably some botany-related furniture, items, and plants (and added a botany room to the station).

{% responsive_image path: assets/img/posts/20.12.01/BotanyMap.png template: _includes/srcset.html %}

## Models

This month, **UnevenPrankster** returned with a new wall-mounted safe!

{% responsive_image path: assets/img/posts/20.12.01/UnevenPrankster_WallSafe.png template: _includes/srcset.html %}

**Goao** also submitted a few things this month, including a keg, wire cutters, an action figure, a toy spaceship, and a full assortment of grenades!

<div class='horizontal-2' markdown='1'>
  {% responsive_image path: assets/img/posts/20.12.01/GoaoKeg.png %}
  {% responsive_image path: assets/img/posts/20.12.01/GoaoWirecutters.png %}
</div>

<div class='horizontal-2' markdown='1'>
  {% responsive_image path: assets/img/posts/20.12.01/GoaoActionFigure.png %}
  {% responsive_image path: assets/img/posts/20.12.01/GoaoFighterToy.png %}
</div>

{% responsive_image path: assets/img/posts/20.12.01/GoaoExplosives.png template: _includes/srcset.html %}

## Art

This month's friendly blog cover-art is brought to us by **Eiko**!

{% responsive_image path: assets/img/art/Eiko/Eiko_Friends.png template: _includes/srcset.html %}

## Conclusion

Want to get more updates or interact with our community? Then join us at our [Discord]({{ site.discord_url }}){:target="_blank"}!