---
layout: post
title:  "20.07: July 2020 Devblog"
date:   2020-08-05 06:30:00 +0100
description: |
    "The clown's greatest gift comes in the form of a banana."
image: /assets/img/art/Bug/Bug_TheLastBrunch.png
image_credit: Image credit - Bug
post_credit: Written by - CosmicCoincidence
monthly_release: 0.3.7
---

*As they were meeting, the clown took the pie, licked it; then threw it at the crew, and exclaimed, 'HONK ye all'!*

# July Recap

A little slower this month, but we are still here...

## Tilemap Layer Restrictions

**BroodjeKipcorn** spent more time this month working on the tilemap system. It now has a lot more layer restrictions which prevents objects from being placed on the wrong layers, prevents certain wall-mounts on windows, prevents all wall-mounts on girders, and many other smaller restrictions.

## Containers

**Light Velox** reworked our container system, by adding sizes, volumes, filters, & traits. Sizes range from tiny to huge, you can only put items in a container of equal or smaller size. Volumes are the maximum volume the container can hold (the sum of the volume of all items inside), so a container will not accept additional items if the max volume is reached (this can be disabled for containers like the bluespace backpack, allowing an infinite max volume for the container). Finally, filters are used in conjunction with traits to restrict what items can be contained in certain containers. The traits (snacks, alcohol, pills, etc) are attached to items, while filters (food, beverages, medication, etc) are attached to containers, and the filters can be used to specifically accept or refuse linked traits.

**CosmicCoincidence** made mobile containers out of the toolbox, medkit, & cardboard box. The toolbox only accepts tools and the medkit only accepts medications (using the filters & traits mentioned above) for now. These smaller mobile containers are obviously special compared to our other containers as they can be carried and even placed inside larger containers like lockers.

## Material Construction

We now have basic material construction courtesy of **Alainx277**. For now, the player can use metal sheets to build a wall girder or metal table, use the glass sheets to build a glass table, or use the wood planks to build a wood table.

<video controls muted poster="{{ site.baseurl }}/assets/img/posts/20.07.01/Alain_Construction.png" width="580px">
  <source src="{{ site.baseurl }}/assets/img/posts/20.07.01/Alain_Construction.webm" type="video/webm">
  <source src="{{ site.baseurl }}/assets/img/posts/20.07.01/Alain_Construction.mp4" type="video/mp4">
</video>

## Options Menu

A new options menu added by **Goao** this month (hit ESC to open/close it). There's not much on this menu yet, but it does make a better home for our round timer and restart button.

{% responsive_image path: assets/img/posts/20.07.01/Goao_Menu.png template: _includes/srcset.html %}

## Consumption

Also from **Goao** (and with help from **Alainx277** bug fixing), we now have a consumption interaction for eating and drinking. You can feed yourself as well as others!

<video controls poster="{{ site.baseurl }}/assets/img/posts/20.07.01/Consumption.png" width="580px">
  <source src="{{ site.baseurl }}/assets/img/posts/20.07.01/Consumption.webm" type="video/webm">
  <source src="{{ site.baseurl }}/assets/img/posts/20.07.01/Consumption.mp4" type="video/mp4">
</video>

## Details

**Seteron:**
- updated the airlocks to use our newer airlock models, and also added animations & lights to them.
- improved the appearance of our opaque glass material.

**CosmicCoincidence:**
- added basic floor overlays.
- added cigarettes, a lighter, & the cigarette vendor.
- added snacks (cup ramen, twinkie, 4no raisins, donk pocket) & the snack vendor.
- added many beverages (booze, juice, milk) along with substances for each, & the booze vendor.
- added more kitchen utensils (frying pan, spatula, whisk, coffee mugs) & the dinnerware vendor.
- added a new table type (poker table), and added table frames for all table types.
- added more furniture & wall-mounts (air alarm, emergency lights, SMES, solar panels, sink, mirror, toilet, vent, scrubber).
- added some missing (forgotten) wire meshes, now accounting for all orientations.
- expanded the map, adding most of the objects mentioned above, a new library, a new bathroom, & a pseudo atmospheric pipe network.

## Fixes

**Alainx277:**
- fixed a bug allowing the player to build tables on the same tile as the player.
- fixed the cell charger not working.
- fixed the interaction range to check horizontal & vertical distances separately.
- fixed a bug with the ragdolls that prevented the player from standing back up sometimes.
- fixed the player's hand slots by serializing the hash fields on the item filters.
- fixed an error with the tilemap adjacency connector which caused tiles not to load sometimes.
- fixed a bug with toggleable items inconsistently changing their states after being dropped and then picked back up.
- improved FOV performance by using batched raycasts and native mesh functions.
- changed sounds to be relative to the camera orientation.

**Seteron:**
- fixed FOV so it is localized to the player.
- fixed the walls/windows rigid body settings, reducing tons of unnecessary physics calculations.

**CosmicCoincidence:**
- fixed the examine function not working on wall-mounts, computer consoles, & airlocks.
- adjusted object names and IDs on nearly all objects for proper identification.
- converted most of the furniture objects to fixture types.
- fixed a bug with some of the glass table connections having inverted materials.

## Models

A new floor tile item by **CosmicCoincidence**, which is UV unwrapped in a way to use the floor tile textures we already have.

{% responsive_image path: assets/img/posts/20.07.01/Cosmic_Tiles.png template: _includes/srcset.html %}

## Graphics

New this month, **NazarDoe** added a bunch of missing symbols to our graffiti set, some new warning lines, and a set of amazing runes!

<div class='horizontal-3' markdown='1'>
  {% responsive_image path: assets/img/posts/20.07.01/NazarDoe_Graffiti.png %}
  {% responsive_image path: assets/img/posts/20.07.01/NazarDoe_WarningLines.png %}
  {% responsive_image path: assets/img/posts/20.07.01/NazarDoe_Runes.png %}
</div>

More interaction icons from **Konstantin3001**, as well as some new thermometers for the UI.

<div class='horizontal-2' markdown='1'>
  {% responsive_image path: assets/img/posts/20.07.01/Konstantin_UI.png %}
  {% responsive_image path: assets/img/posts/20.07.01/Konstantin_Thermometer.png %}
</div>

## Art

'The Last Brunch' is the name of this month's art piece, as **Bug** decided to continue the theme of recreating classical art with SS3D assets.

{% responsive_image path: assets/img/art/Bug/Bug_TheLastBrunch.png template: _includes/srcset.html %}

### Notes

Haven't joined the party yet? Then come visit us on our [discord]({{ site.discord_url }}){:target="_blank"}!