---
layout: post
title: "20.08: August 2020 Devblog"
date: 2020-09-07 12:31:00 +0100
description: |
    "Oh where have thou gone?"
image: /assets/img/art/Goao/GoaoSpessGothic.png
image_credit: Image credit - Goao
post_credit: Written by – Probably Not / CosmicCoincidence
monthly_release: 0.3.8
---

Since when was a Nanotransen employee able to afford a house?

# August Recap

I promise you that we are still alive... Probably.

## UI Rework

A UI rework has been much needed for a long time and **Goao** did just that, making it much prettier than [before]({{ site.baseurl }}/assets/img/posts/20.06.01/Girders.png){:target="_blank"}. He also added a new [intent cycler and targeting doll]({{ site.baseurl }}/assets/img/posts/20.08.01/Goao_UI2.png){:target="_blank"}. Currently, you can swap between 'help' and 'harm' intents as well as select a targeting location on the target doll, but it's just for show for now as they do not have an underlying functionality yet.

{% responsive_image path: assets/img/posts/20.08.01/Goao_UI1.png template: _includes/srcset.html %}

## Atmospheric Pipe Machinery

In addition to all our previous atmos-related progress, **BroodjeKipcorn** has expanded on our pipe atmos system and introduced a few more functions (and their related machinery). Before, the atmos system could only handle 1 layer of pipes with the only working machine pieces being valves and pumps. Now, the atmos system can handle ALL 4 of our atmos pipe layers, these layers can be connected together via layer manifolds, as well as new functionality for filters, scrubbers, and ventilators.

Currently, the scrubbers are default set to 'scrub' and only scrub CO2, they can be changed to 'siphon' which will suck in all gas types. The vents can be set to either 'internal' or 'external' which will change the vent's targetting pressure to either be based upon the internal pressure of the pipe or external pressure (the room), by default it is set to external with a target pressure of 101.3 for standard atmospheric pressure in the station. For now, the interactions for the scrubbers and vents are done right on the part itself as we do not have the air alarms functional yet.

<div>
  <video controls muted poster="{{ site.baseurl }}/assets/img/posts/20.08.01/BroodjePipeAtmos1.png" width="580px">
    <source src="{{ site.baseurl }}/assets/img/posts/20.08.01/BroodjePipeAtmos1.webm" type="video/webm">
    <source src="{{ site.baseurl }}/assets/img/posts/20.08.01/BroodjePipeAtmos1.mp4" type="video/mp4">
  </video>
  <h5><i>CO2 being scrubbed from a room</i></h5>
</div>

<div>
  <video controls muted poster="{{ site.baseurl }}/assets/img/posts/20.08.01/BroodjePipeAtmos2.png" width="580px">
    <source src="{{ site.baseurl }}/assets/img/posts/20.08.01/BroodjePipeAtmos2.webm" type="video/webm">
    <source src="{{ site.baseurl }}/assets/img/posts/20.08.01/BroodjePipeAtmos2.mp4" type="video/mp4">
  </video>
  <h5><i>CO2 moving through a pipe, passing through a 4-way pipe manifold, and splitting into 4 different pipes each on different layers</i></h5>
</div>

## Fixes

**Ryan**

- Fixed the examine function by separating the description and title, allowing for more customization (like using bold words, etc) in the object descriptions.

- Fixed an issue where non-hosting clients were unable to examine networked objects.

- Fixed a bug where the interaction name was unreadable in the interaction wheel if the wheel is too close to the bottom (the text was below the wheel before, but Ryan allowed it to move to the top when the interaction wheel is low on the screen).

## Icons

**Konstatin** made some snazzy icons for the thermometer in extreme temperatures, player intent, and various types of body damages. Check em’ out.

<div class='horizontal-2' markdown='1'>
  {% responsive_image path: assets/img/posts/20.08.01/Konstantin_Thermometers.png %}
  {% responsive_image path: assets/img/posts/20.08.01/Konstantin_Intents.png %}
</div>

{% responsive_image path: assets/img/posts/20.08.01/Konstantin_BodyDamage.png template: _includes/srcset.html %}

## Updates

It ain’t a secret that the server has been a little on the quiet side lately, so to remedy this we are going to start hosting events. At the moment we will only be doing movie nights, as well as Jackbox nights. So, if you are up for watching a cool spacey movie or having fun with the developers and other members of the community in a game of *Push the Button*, check out [our google calendar](https://calendar.google.com/calendar/u/2/r?tab=oc&pli=1){:target="_blank"} for the next upcoming event (they will also be posted in our #events channel on our discord).

<iframe src="https://calendar.google.com/calendar/embed?src=f7ttpb0t68tst1feejt9k02660%40group.calendar.google.com&ctz=America%2FLos_Angeles" style="border: 0" width="580" height="435" frameborder="0" scrolling="no"></iframe>

## Conclusion

While the previous month may have been excruciatingly slow, we are not going anywhere. Here is to a more active September.

Also join our [discord]({{ site.discord_url }}){:target="_blank"} por favor.