---
layout: post
title:  "20.04: April 2020 Devblog"
date:   2020-05-04 06:30:00 +0100
description: |
    "Don't panic, it's organic!"
author: CosmicCoincidence
image: /assets/img/art/Bug/Bug_420Hydro.png
image_credit: Bug
---

*“They’ve outlawed the No. 1 vegetable on the planet.”*

-- Timothy Leary

# April Recap

We hope you all had a happy month of 4/20! Not a lot of progress this month due most of us being too high to leave our homes regardless of the quarantines. Just kidding, some of us have just been busier recently, but we're still here! We gotta thank all the new contributors who continue to show up each month, providing momentum for the project. Though there weren't any major changes this month, there were several smaller fixes made by two new individuals.

## Fixes

**TheLife** implemented a basic interaction distance for construction, to prevent the player from building at an infinite distance. The new build distance is 1.5 meters/tiles. He also fixed some bugs allowing the player to construct various objects over other objects.

<video controls muted poster="{{ site.baseurl }}/assets/img/posts/20.04.01/TheLife_BuildDistance.png" width="580px">
  <source src="{{ site.baseurl }}/assets/img/posts/20.04.01/TheLife_BuildDistance.mp4" type="video/mp4">
</video>

**PhantomFears** repaired an issue in our scene where most of our tiles were offset by the slightest amount (0.01), and while he was at it, fixed our broken round timer.

## Textures

This month, **Eiko** decided to make some more console screen animations. The far left one ([crew monitor]({{ site.baseurl }}/assets/img/posts/20.04.01/crew_monitor.mp4){:target="_blank"}) was his first one which was made many moons ago. The next 4 ([supply]({{ site.baseurl }}/assets/img/posts/20.04.01/cargo_1.mp4){:target="_blank"}, [slime management]({{ site.baseurl }}/assets/img/posts/20.04.01/slime.mp4){:target="_blank"}, [cloning]({{ site.baseurl }}/assets/img/posts/20.04.01/cloning.mp4){:target="_blank"}, and [security records]({{ site.baseurl }}/assets/img/posts/20.04.01/security_records.mp4){:target="_blank"}) are his new ones this month. The final console ([cmd]({{ site.baseurl }}/assets/img/posts/20.04.01/cmd.mp4){:target="_blank"}) was made by **Goao** along with the touchpad displays on each of the consoles.

<video autoplay="autoplay" muted loop="loop" poster="{{ site.baseurl }}/assets/img/posts/20.04.01/Consoles.png" width="580px">
  <source src="{{ site.baseurl }}/assets/img/posts/20.04.01/Consoles.mp4" type="video/mp4">
</video>

Also from **Eiko**, a [pirate blanket texture]({{ site.baseurl }}/assets/img/posts/20.04.01/pirate_blanket.png){:target="_blank"}.

## Models

**Basecode** is back, providing a deep-fryer, request console, illuminated floors, shuttle floors & windows, and a redesign of our old shuttle engine and compressor. Besides making these new models, he also helped a lot this month cleaning & fixing older models to get them up-to-date, including a bit of organizing.

<div class='horizontal-2' markdown='1'>
  {% responsive_image path: assets/img/posts/20.04.01/Basecode_DeepFryer.png %}
  {% responsive_image path: assets/img/posts/20.04.01/Basecode_RequestConsole.png %}
</div>

<div class='horizontal-2' markdown='1'>
  {% responsive_image path: assets/img/posts/20.04.01/Basecode_LightTile.png %}
  {% responsive_image path: assets/img/posts/20.04.01/Basecode_ShuttleFloors.png %}
</div>

<div class='horizontal-2' markdown='1'>
  {% responsive_image path: assets/img/posts/20.04.01/Basecode_Windows_LightShuttle.png %}
  {% responsive_image path: assets/img/posts/20.04.01/Basecode_ShuttleEngine.png %}
</div>

**Goao** also made the robotic corgi, I.A.N.

{% responsive_image path: assets/img/posts/20.04.01/John_RoboCorgi.png template: _includes/srcset.html %}

**Bug** made this gnarly gas mask.

{% responsive_image path: assets/img/posts/20.04.01/Bug_Gasmask.png template: _includes/srcset.html %}

## Art

I imagine that many of you can relate to **Bug's** artwork this month!

<iframe class="video" width="580px" height="325px" src="https://www.youtube-nocookie.com/embed/J_NM59nEk4Y" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>

{% responsive_image path: assets/img/art/Bug/Bug_420Hydro.png template: _includes/srcset.html %}

### Notes

If you haven't already, come join our [Discord]({{ site.discord_url }}){:target="_blank"} to get a greater insight on our development!
