---
layout: post
title: "21.05: May 2021 Devblog"
date: 2021-06-04 12:30:00 +0100
description: |
    "Every big accomplishment is a series of little accomplishments."
image: /assets/img/art/ProbablyNot/ProbablyNot_Janitor.png
image_credit: Image credit - ProbablyNot
post_credit: Written by – CosmicCoincidence
monthly_release: 0.3.95d
---

*“What could we accomplish if we knew we could not fail?”*

-- Eleanor Roosevelt

# May Recap

While we are still reworking the tilemap design we made some progress this month with fixing and cleaning the project up. We also made a Twitter account this month so if you are active there, go give [us a follow]({{ site.twitter_url }}){:target="_blank"}! Related to that, **viniciusueharaweb** added some nice vector graphics for our social media links in the footer of this website (see bottom of page).

## Lung Cancer

Implemented by **LightVelox**, cigarettes and joints are now consumed when lit, currently lasting just 10 seconds. Even includes an extinguish interaction. Fine-tuning will come later.

<video controls muted poster="{{ site.baseurl }}/assets/img/posts/21.05.01/Smokin.png" width="580px">>
  <source src="{{ site.baseurl }}/assets/img/posts/21.05.01/Smokin.webm" type="video/webm">
  <source src="{{ site.baseurl }}/assets/img/posts/21.05.01/Smokin.mp4" type="video/mp4">
</video>

## Details

**LightVelox**
- Added a secondary hold point for certain objects, fixing a problem where certain items clipped into the character when held.
- Added starting filters for specific container types to prevent certain items in them.
- Fixed a bug in the container UI that when you drag the UI the slots of the container move but not the items which caused a glitch.

**CosmicCoincidence**
- Renamed many files for consistency and removed so outdated ones.

**Eiko**
- Added a new Unity gizmo to help visualize the placement and orientation of our hold points on objects.

**mjboth**
- Re-encoded our Surgery Console animated texture, fixing the stutter it had.

**Seteron**
- Reduced the medkit and toolbox animations so they open less and prevent clipping.
- Updated UI slot image, preventing the issue of not being able to see which hand is selected.

**BroodjeKipcorn**
- Updated the delete function in the tilemap editor so it only deletes the active layer instead of the whole tile.

**Ryan**
- Updated a few game controls.
- Renamed a couple of interaction methods to reduce confusion.

## Models

**Turkey** who is a long-time community member but doesn't often contribute, surprised us with a cute maintenance drone this month.

{% responsive_image path: assets/img/posts/21.05.01/TurkeyMaintDrone.png template: _includes/srcset.html %}

The great **Cornelius** is back this month with some nostalgic squirt guns and intriguing xeno egg.

<div class='horizontal-2' markdown='1'>
  {% responsive_image path: assets/img/posts/21.05.01/SquirtGuns.png %}
  {% responsive_image path: assets/img/posts/21.05.01/XenoEgg.png %}
</div>

**Eiko** is back this month as well with a goofy cardboard cutout and a new set of airlocks, including secure airlocks and a fire-lock.

{% responsive_image path: assets/img/posts/21.05.01/CardboardCutout.png template: _includes/srcset.html %}

<div class='horizontal-2' markdown='1'>
  {% responsive_image path: assets/img/posts/21.05.01/Airlocks.png %}
  {% responsive_image path: assets/img/posts/21.05.01/AirlocksSpecial.png %}
</div>

## Textures

Also from **Eiko** this month, are these hilarious posters.

<div class='horizontal-2' markdown='1'>
  {% responsive_image path: assets/img/posts/21.05.01/ERPNO.png %}
  {% responsive_image path: assets/img/posts/21.05.01/ERPYES.png %}
</div>

## Art

**ProbablyNot** is back this month with his infamous 3D scenes.

{% responsive_image path: assets/img/art/ProbablyNot/ProbablyNot_Janitor.png template: _includes/srcset.html %}

## Conclusion

Lastly, although we have a download link for each monthy version at the top of each blog post, and keep a link to the latest version on the homepage, we also added a new [download page]({{ site.baseurl }}/download/) that links to the latest release as well. It's handier to link to externally and will download the game automatically.

We're still over here working so, as always, you know where to find us if you want to follow us closer or come contribute (on [Discord]({{ site.discord_url }}){:target="_blank"}).