---
layout: post
title: "21.12: December 2021 Devblog"
date: 2022-01-06 12:30:00 +0100
description: |
    "Scary stories aren't needed around this campfire..."
author: CosmicCoincidence
image: /assets/img/art/ProbablyNot/ProbablyNot_Campfire.png
image_credit: ProbablyNot
release_old: 0.3.95l
---

Born too late to explore the earth.<br>
Born too soon to explore the galaxy.<br>
Born just in time to help make SS3D.

# December Recap

We hope you all enjoyed your holidays and had a happy new year!

December was more active for us than some of our recent months. Maybe it was due to the holiday breaks, or maybe it was coincidental timing of multiple factors being completed in the same month, regardless we'll take it. 

## Appearance

Several improvements to the game's appearance have been made this month. This first one was voted for in a poll we had a while back in our discord. It's a cutout shader for insetting objects into the floor. Trying to lower a machine into the floor prior to this would clip the floor tile and machine through each other and any part of the machine that was below the floor would not be visible. We can now have [machines that are inset into the floor]({{ site.baseurl }}/assets/img/posts/21.12.01/FloorShader.png){:target="_blank"} thanks to **Seteron** submitting this new floor tile cutout shader.

**Seteron** once again tweaked our lighting by adding new shaders, new post processing, adjusted values, and fixed bugs. The [old](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/38957910/146114991-d3cfd4ca-df31-432a-a6df-aecce69fadb0.PNG){:target="_blank"} is a bit brighter, while the [new](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/38957910/146115003-5b76c603-3480-43cc-bd89-734df0795f26.PNG){:target="_blank"} emphasizes shadows more (this likly isn't final).

**Seteron** also [improved our item icon renderer]({{ site.baseurl }}/assets/img/posts/21.12.01/ItemRender.png){:target="_blank"} immensely. He improved the lighting/shadows, added an outline to the items, and fixed the bug causing our transparent and emission materials to not render properly.

A controversial change, **CosmicCoincidence** raised the height of walls to give more space for various mobs and machines while fitting within the height of a room. [Before](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/41941008/147019311-28dabad8-c6c8-40c7-803a-f80cad13ed3a.png){:target="_blank"} and [after](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/41941008/147019002-c40195a7-3d6a-497d-ae73-52b97c443732.png){:target="_blank"}.

## Connectables

This month we had a lot of progress on our connectables, which are an integral part of the tilemap system. Connectables are objects that connect from one tile to another in specific ways. **CosmicCoincidence** has been working on [redesigning the connectables]({{ site.gitbook_url }}/design/environment/connectables) and is mostly finished now, but some things still may change. In addition to the document, **Cosmic** also updated most of the connectable models and created missing ones to provide with this design.

To prepare for the new (and complex) adjacency scripts that are required in the above design, **Em3rgency** restructured much of the underlying logic used by the adjacency scripts.

## Details

**BroodjeKipcorn**
- Removed unwanted rotations on tile objects.

**Em3rgency** (returning after 2 years!)
- Fixed our github actions automated build setup.
- Added an automated test workflow on github for each commit.

**SteindelSE** (new this month)
- Removed unnecessary colliders on aesthetic doors (like locker doors).

**Seteron**
- Fixed the lobby character preview from twitching.

## Models

Yes, we still have more modeling happening... **Medji** who is new this month, contributed a teleprod, pyrogrenade, and porcini mushrooms.

<div class='horizontal-2' markdown='1'>
  {% responsive_image path: assets/img/posts/21.12.01/Medji_TeleProd.png %}
  {% responsive_image path: assets/img/posts/21.12.01/Medji_PyroGrenade.png %}
</div>

{% responsive_image path: assets/img/posts/21.12.01/Medji_Porcini.png template: _includes/srcset.html %}

From **John** this month, a neat foldable chair.

{% responsive_image path: assets/img/posts/21.12.01/John_FoldableChair.png template: _includes/srcset.html %}

## Art

And this month's blog cover was made by **ProbablyNot**, once again.

{% responsive_image path: assets/img/art/ProbablyNot/ProbablyNot_Campfire.png template: _includes/srcset.html %}

## Conclusion

As each core system gets designed and implemented we slowly creep one step closer to having the game we are all dreaming of.

As always, stay tuned with us by joining the discord happening over on our [Discord]({{ site.discord_url }}){:target="_blank"}.
