---
layout: post
title: "21.09: September 2021 Devblog"
date: 2021-10-06 12:30:00 +0100
description: |
    "I think we all have the urge to be a clown, whether we know it or not."
author: CosmicCoincidence
image: /assets/img/art/SmokingMan/SmokingMan_Closet.png
image_credit: SmokingMan
release_old: 0.3.95h
---

*"The world is indeed comic, but the joke is on mankind."*

-- H. P. Lovecraft

# September Recap

We're still making a lot of good progress on our core systems, laying the foundations for the rest of the game above them. This month it was the container system that received an overhaul, following a load of bug fixes. We're still inching closer every month to completing our first milestone.

## Container System

**Stilnat** reworked our 'system of containers' into a more proper 'container system' by combining our several container-related scripts into a singular script. Now all container parameters like its type, its size, if it displays its contents, etc. are all under a single script. This refinement should make it more intuitive and easy when adding new container objects to the game and helped clean things up from the code perspective.

The improved system now also allows for adding multiple containers to a single game object which can be interacted with individually. It also fixes a few bugs relating to containers. A couple of the bugs were specific to container's UIs staying open for various reasons, another was that items could still be removed when containers were closed. Mobile container's animations are also now tied to their UIs so they can be opened and viewed with the same interaction.

## Details

**Nsarrazin** (new this month)
- Fixed a bug where the chat sent its message when out of focus.
- Improved the intent button appearance, making the background and alignment consistent with the others.

**Ryan**, The Bug Exterminator
- Updated the Unity version for the project. We are now using 2019.4.30f1 (2019 LTS).
- Resolved an inconsistency in the range between different interactions.
- Fixed a bug where multiple players would cause extra unnecessary audio listeners.
- Fixed a bug where the hover examine system caused an unintentional extra text to overlay the examine text.
- Fixed the other half of the bug he half-fixed last month regarding items disappearing instead of dropping when the player falls down.
- Resolved an issue with containers syncing.  

## 2D

**Cornelius** created this neat runic font that can be used for unintelligible cult speech.

{% responsive_image path: assets/img/posts/21.09.01/CultFont.png template: _includes/srcset.html %}

## Art

**SmokingMan** contributed for the first time this month with this relatable artwork!

{% responsive_image path: assets/img/art/SmokingMan/SmokingMan_Closet.png template: _includes/srcset.html %}

## Conclusion

As always, if you are interested in following the development process more closely, or contribute yourself, come join us in our [Discord]({{ site.discord_url }}){:target="_blank"}.
