---
layout: post
title: "22.10-12: 2022 4th Quarter Devblog"
date: 2023-01-08 12:30:00 +0100
description: |
    "A feast for slimes."
author: CosmicCoincidence
image: /assets/img/art/ProbablyNot/ProbablyNot_Slime.png
image_credit: ProbablyNot
release: 0.0.6.0
---

We here at SS3D hope you all enjoyed your holidays despite being the naughty little boys and girls we know many of you are. After dropping off a chunk of coal for us, Santa did actually bring us something great this year, he brought us *closer together*. Thanks, Santa!

# Q4 Recap

The 4th quarter of 2022 saw an uptick in productivity as a result of **John's** progress on the rework. 

As a result of the large rework, we have now reset our release versioning as well. This should have been done earlier in the year when we switched to the rework branch as our new primary developing branch but we got ahead of ourselves I guess.

I'm pleased to say that, despite a lot of work to do still on the rework, we have moved to the point where we can begin working on other systems not included or directly relating to said rework. Gamemodes being the first big one.

## Rework

**John** has been still porting over our older systems to the new branch and recently has been getting help from a few other contributors. One of the main tweaks he did recently was converting our networking system from Mirror over to FishNet.

He made more progress with player spawning from last quarter. Players now despawn at the end of a round. Players now have 'minds' (consciousness, soul, w/e), so now a player's mind can be transferred to another entity, become a ghost when their body dies, etc..

He also managed to port over the interaction system, mostly. So basic interactions should be working again, mostly.

## Gamemodes

**LightVelox** implemented our first functioning gamemode system. The system is fairly basic but allows for traitors to occur, traitors have objectives, and now a proper way to end a round. The round ends when the objectives are complete. Objectives can also fail. Currently, the traitor gamemode is rudimentary with just 1 objective (try to detonate the nuke) but will be expanded with time.

**Ryan** refactored the above system to separate domain layer from application services and implemented unit testing for domain layer. He later added functionality for group-based objectives, including both cooperative and competitive types.

## Details

**John**
- reworked our application settings.
- improved asset data handling.
- removed duplicate event system.
- repaired the false start issue (admins could start a round after it already started).
- updated various programming documentation.
- fixed *many* bugs.

**iamteapot**
- fixed a problem not being able to make builds.
- added a command console to allow various debug commands to assist testing.
- fixed the camera so it smoothly follows the player, now accounting for minds.
- fixed discord integration.

**Ryan**
- fixed the item layer requirements.

**LightVelox**
- fixed drop interaction not showing in the interaction wheel.
- fixed memory leak caused by event listeners.

## Textures

**CosmicCoincidence** rendered the classic [SS13 floor plaque]({{ site.baseurl }}/assets/img/posts/22.10-12/ss13sign.png){:target="_blank"} as textures, with normal maps.

{% responsive_image path: assets/img/posts/22.10-12/SS13SignTextures.png template: _includes/srcset.html %}

**ProbablyNot** gave some more love to our floor tiles by rendering a new normal map and even an ambient occlusion map, both of which have regular and inverted variations.

{% responsive_image path: assets/img/posts/22.10-12/PNTileMaps.jpg template: _includes/srcset.html %}

## Models

**ProbablyNot** also made a reinforced light for security.

{% responsive_image path: assets/img/posts/22.10-12/PNSecLight.png template: _includes/srcset.html %}

## Art

Normally **ProbablyNot** likes to hide the slime in his blog artwork (go back through previous months and see if you can find the slime hidden in his blog cover art) but decided to mix it up this time.

{% responsive_image path: assets/img/art/ProbablyNot/ProbablyNot_Slime.png template: _includes/srcset.html %}

## Footnotes

If you're curious about seeing more development from us, or contributor yourself, come join our [Discord]({{ site.discord_url }}){:target="_blank"} and say "Hello"!
