---
layout: post
title: "23.04-06: 2023 2nd Quarter Devblog"
date: 2023-07-05 12:30:00 +0100
description: |
    "Today we created a new science!"
author: CosmicCoincidence
image: /assets/img/art/ProbablyNot/Researcher.png
image_credit: ProbablyNot
release: 0.0.6.4
---

*"We will follow the science no matter where it leads, even to death or destruction."*

-- RD

# Q2 Recap

This past quarter has been a slow one, but we are still working hard!

A few months ago we started the slow process of reviewing and moving game assets from our GoogleDrive to our new GitHub [art repo]({{ site.github_url }}/SS3D-art){:target="_blank"}, the process is slow going but we've made decent progress over the last few months. It's a good time to work on this because a lot of our assets haven't been examined by anyone is a long time and it's adventagous to have them reviewed now while they are not needed in-game yet. Eventually we plan to embed the art repo into the game repo so that the assets do not need to be updated at multiple locations.

## Details

**LightVelox**
- Applied humble object pattern on items.

**iamteapot**
- Added lights to lockers based on lock status.
- Changed the IngameDebugConsole location.
- Fixed stored items being rendered.
- Added camera rotation with mouse drag.
- Reworked inconsistent icon rendering in the tilemap editor.

**mchlopecki** (new contributor)
- Fixed skybox connections.

**CiciSpace** (new contributor)
- Normalized movement speed.

**Ryan**
- Added summarized test results with CI.
- Automated self-assigning issues.
- Automated opening project boards based on milestones.
- Automated adding issues/prs to projects boards and moving PRs to certain columns.
- Fixed stamina bar display on host.
- Resolved warnings caused by hiding inherited members.
- Added more tests for the containers system.

**CosmicCoincidence**
- Updated startup logo.
- Updated the human, hair, organs, and clothing models.
- Added some basic items & furniture from the old branch.
- Moved many assets from GoogleDrive to GitHub.

**xk0fe**
- Added collider checks for child objects.
- Renamed code, prefabs, objects, and inputs.
- Changed object display names in the log.

**Nath**
- Fixed duplicate player key bug.
- Applied humble object pattern on substance containers.

**John**
- Reworked how network settings are loaded.
- Fixed overrides in the Engiborg prefab?

## Assets

**Kruzn** returned with a couple more models for us, a modular stone altar for the chapel and two variations on the status display monitor.

<div class='horizontal-2' markdown='1'>
  {% responsive_image path: assets/img/posts/23.04-06/StatusMonitor.png %}
  {% responsive_image path: assets/img/posts/23.04-06/StoneChapelAltar.png %}
</div>

## Art

**ProbablyNot** purpose in life is making these fabulous wallpapers for us!

{% responsive_image path: assets/img/art/ProbablyNot/Researcher.png template: _includes/srcset.html %}

And **SmokingMan** enjoys doing some chaotic/comedic scenes for us too!

{% responsive_image path: assets/img/art/SmokingMan/Spessmen.png template: _includes/srcset.html %}

{% responsive_image path: assets/img/art/SmokingMan/ShoeStealer.png template: _includes/srcset.html %}

## Footnotes

If you want contribute or take part in community discussions, join us in our [Discord]({{ site.discord_url }}){:target="_blank"} server.
